Add Image CDN article (#1215)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/fast/image-cdns/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Use image CDNs to optimize images
authors:
  - katiehempenius
description: |
  Image CDNs are excellent at optimizing images. 
  Switching to an image CDN can yield a 40–80% savings in image bytes.

> date: 2019-07-28

Reviewer: mind adding a `draft: true` flag to this post? That way we can land it but hold off on launching it until all of the image content is in place.

Reviewer: actually I can push to this branch! I'll add it :D

Reviewer: oh snap you beat me to it!

---
layout: post
title: Use image CDNs to optimize images
authors:
  - katiehempenius
description: |
  Image CDNs are excellent at optimizing images. 
  Switching to an image CDN can yield a 40-80% savings in image bytes.
date: 2019-07-28
codelabs:
  - codelab-cloudinary-url-api
---

## Why use an image CDN?

Image CDNs are excellent at optimizing images. Switching to an image CDN can yield a [40-80% savings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YJGCZCaIZkQ&t=1010s) in image bytes. In theory, it is possible to achieve the same results by using only build scripts - but in practice this is rare.

> ## What is an image CDN?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What's an image CDN?
```
Contraction

> Image CDNs specialize in the transformation, optimization, and delivery of images. You can also think of them as an API for accessing and manipulating the images used on your site. For images loaded from an image CDN, an image URL indicates not only which image to load, but also parameters like size, format, and quality. This makes it easy to create different variations of an image for different use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Image CDNs specialize in the transformation, optimization, and delivery of images. You can also think of them as APIs for accessing and manipulating the images used on your site. For images loaded from an image CDN, an image URL indicates not only which image to load, but also parameters like size, format, and quality. This makes it easy to create variations of an image for different use cases.
```

<figure class="w-figure  w-figure--center">

>   <img src="./image-cdn-requests.jpg" alt="Shows the requests/responses to/from an image CDN">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="./image-cdn-requests.jpg" alt="Shows the requests/responses to/from an image CDN">
```

Reviewer: Suggest adding the screenshot class here to give the image a border.

Reviewer: also might be worth rethinking the `alt` text as it doesn't really describe the content of the image in a useful way. Might be worth trying something like "Shows the request/response flow between the image CDN and the client. Parameters like size and format are used to request variations of the same image."

Reviewer 2: I also think it'd be worth adding a figcaption here, FWIW

</figure>

> Image CDNs are different from build-time image optimization scripts in that they create new versions of images as they are needed. As a result, they are generally better suited than build scripts for creating images that are heavily customized for each individual client.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Image CDNs are different from build-time image optimization scripts in that they create new versions of images as they're needed. As a result, CDNs are generally better suited to creating images that are heavily customized for each individual client than build scripts are.
```
Edits:
- Contractions
- Ambiguous pronoun
- Idiomatic preposition
- Parallelism

> ## Image URLs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How CDNs use image URLs to indicate optimization options
```
An attempt to make this section head a little more descriptive.

> Image URLs used by image CDNs convey important information about an image and the transformations and optimizations that should be applied to it. URL formats will vary depending on image CDN, but at a high-level, they all have similar features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Image URLs used by image CDNs convey important information about an image and the transformations and optimizations that should be applied to it. URL formats will vary depending on image CDN, but at a high-level, they all have similar features. Let's walk through some of the most common features.
```
An attempt to help signal post structure.

<figure class="w-figure  w-figure--center">

>   <img src="./image-cdn-url.jpg" alt="Example of a image CDN image URL">

Reviewer: Similar point as above regarding the alt text. Can you think of a sentence that briefly conveys what the image is trying to get across to the user?

Reviewer 2: Ditto for the figcaption :)

</figure>

### Origin

> An image CDN can live on your own domain or the domain of your image CDN. Third-party image CDNs typically offer the option of using a custom domain (for example, yours) for a fee. Using your own domain makes it easier to switch image CDNs at a later date because no URL changes will be needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An image CDN can live on your own domain or the domain of your image CDN. Third-party image CDNs typically offer the option of using a custom domain for a fee. Using your own domain makes it easier to switch image CDNs at a later date because no URL changes will be needed.
```
Seems implied?

> Figure 2 uses the image CDN’s domain (“example-cdn.com”) with a personalized subdomain, rather than a custom domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 2 uses the image CDN’s domain ("example-cdn.com") with a personalized subdomain, rather than a custom domain.
```

I think we have a policy of using straight quotes just to avoid folks accidentally copy/pasting a smart quote into their text editor. https://web.dev/handbook/grammar/#quotation-marks-and-apostrophes

> Figure 2 uses the image CDN’s domain (“example-cdn.com”) with a personalized subdomain, rather than a custom domain.

Reviewer 2: We've stopped using the figure numbering system to incentivize folks to keep images right next to related text, which makes articles easier to follow, especially for people with cognitive differences. Would it make sense to just move the image below this para?

### Image

> A widely supported way of uploading images to an image CDN is to send them via an HTTP POST request to the image CDN’s API. However, manually uploading images is not always necessary in order to use an image CDN. Some image CDNs can be configured to automatically retrieve images from their existing locations when they are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A widely supported way of uploading images to an image CDN is to send them via an HTTP POST request to the image CDN's API. However, you don't always need to manually upload images to use an image CDN. Some image CDNs can be configured to automatically retrieve images from their existing locations when they're needed.
```
Switching to active voice, fixing curly apostrophes, and trimming a couple words :)

> This is often achieved by including the complete URL of the _existing image_ within the URL for the image generated by the image CDN. For example, you might see a URL that looks like this: `https://[my-site.example-cdn.com/https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg/quality=auto`. This URL would retrieve and optimize the image that exists at `https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg`.

Reviewer: this is a neat feature. Do you know which CDNs support it? Asking for my own curiosity :D

Author: It's a pretty common feature. Off the top of my head, Thumbor, Cloudinary, and Imgix all support it.

> This is often achieved by including the complete URL of the _existing image_ within the URL for the image generated by the image CDN. For example, you might see a URL that looks like this: `https://[my-site.example-cdn.com/https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg/quality=auto`. This URL would retrieve and optimize the image that exists at `https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This capability is often achieved by including the complete URL of the _existing image_ within the URL for the image generated by the image CDN. For example, you might see a URL that looks like this: `https://[my-site.example-cdn.com/https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg/quality=auto`. This URL would retrieve and optimize the image that exists at `https://flowers.com/daisy.jpg`.
```
Avoiding the ambiguous pronoun.

### Security key

> A security key prevents other people from creating new versions of your images. If this feature is enabled, each new version of an image requires a unique security key. If someone tries to change the parameters of the image URL but doesn’t provide a valid security key, they won’t be able to create a new version. Your image CDN will take care of the details of generating and tracking security keys for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A security key prevents other people from creating new versions of your images. If this feature is enabled, each new version of an image requires a unique security key. If someone tries to change the parameters of the image URL but doesn't provide a valid security key, they wo'’t be able to create a new version. Your image CDN will take care of the details of generating and tracking security keys for you.
```

### Transformations

> Image CDNs offer tens, and in some cases hundreds, of different image transformations. These transformations are specified via the URL string and there are no restrictions on using multiple transformations at the same time. In the context of web performance, the most important image transformations are size, pixel density, format, and compression. These transformations are the reason why switching to an image CDN typically results in a significant reduction in image size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Image CDNs offer tens, and in some cases hundreds, of different image transformations. These transformations are specified via the URL string, and there are no restrictions on using multiple transformations at the same time. In the context of web performance, the most important image transformations are size, pixel density, format, and compression. These transformations are the reason why switching to an image CDN typically results in a significant reduction in image size.
```
You need a comma between two independent clauses joined by a coordinating conjunction.

> There tends to be an objectively “best” setting for performance transformations, so some image CDNs support an “auto” mode for these transformations. For example, instead of `format=webp` you would include `format=auto` in the image’s URL string. This setting would leave it up to the CDN to determine the best format to serve to a client. Signals that an image CDN can use to determine the best way to transform an image include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There tends to be an objectively "best" setting for performance transformations, so some image CDNs support an "auto" mode for these transformations. For example, instead of `format=webp` you would include `format=auto` in the image’s URL string. This setting would leave it up to the CDN to determine the best format to serve to a client. Signals that an image CDN can use to determine the best way to transform an image include:
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, I'd suggest omitting these quotation marks. If it really is the best, there's no reason to add scare quotes. Or, if there's a caveat lurking in there, better to make it explicit 😄 

Also, there's something weird about presenting pseudo-examples in code; it makes them seem like actual examples. Maybe rework the sentence to something like: "For example, instead of specifying that images be transformed to the WebP format, you could allow the CDN to automatically select and serve the optimal format." (Bonus: this way, you souldn't need the following sentence.)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> *   [Client hints](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/09/automating-resource-selection-with-client-hints) (e.g. Viewport-Width, DPR, and Width)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   [Client hints](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2015/09/automating-resource-selection-with-client-hints) (for example, viewport width, DPR, and image width)
```
We avoid Latin abbreviations.

Also, please spell out "DPR."

> *   [Save-Data](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Save-Data) header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   The `[Save-Data](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Save-Data)` header
```

> *   [user-agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent) header

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The [User-Agent](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/User-Agent) request header
```

> *   [NetworkInformation API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Network_Information_API)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*   The [Network Information API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Network_Information_API)
```

> For example, the image CDN might serve JPEG XR to an Edge browser, WebP to a Chrome browser, and JPEG to a very old browser. “Auto” settings are popular because they allow you to take advantage of image CDNs’ significant expertise in optimizing images without you needing to make code changes in order to adopt new technologies once they’re supported by the image CDN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the image CDN might serve JPEG XR to an Edge browser, WebP to a Chrome browser, and JPEG to a very old browser. "Auto" settings are popular because they allow you to take advantage of image CDNs’ significant expertise in optimizing images without you needing to make code changes in order to adopt new technologies once they’re supported by the image CDN.
```

> For example, the image CDN might serve JPEG XR to an Edge browser, WebP to a Chrome browser, and JPEG to a very old browser. “Auto” settings are popular because they allow you to take advantage of image CDNs’ significant expertise in optimizing images without you needing to make code changes in order to adopt new technologies once they’re supported by the image CDN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the image CDN might serve JPEG XR to an Edge browser, WebP to a Chrome browser, and JPEG to a very old browser. Auto settings are popular because they allow you to take advantage of image CDNs' significant expertise in optimizing images without the need for code changes to adopt new technologies once they're supported by the CDN.
```
Proposed edits for concision.

## Types of Image CDNs

> Image CDNs can be broken down into two categories: self-managed and third-party-managed.

Reviewer 2: Nice structural signaling!

### Self-managed image CDNs

> Self-managed CDNs can be a good choice for sites with engineering personnel that are comfortable maintaining their own infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Self-managed CDNs can be a good choice for sites with engineering staff who are comfortable maintaining their own infrastructure.
```
Edits:
- Replaced "personal" with "staff" to lower register.
- People take "who" as a pronoun; things take "that."

> [Thumbor](https://github.com/thumbor/thumbor) is the only self-managed image CDN available today. While it is open-source and free to use, it generally has less features than most commercial CDNs and its documentation is somewhat limited. [Wikipedia](https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Thumbor), [Square](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/dynamic-images-with-thumbor-a430a1cfcd87), and [99designs](https://99designs.com/tech-blog/blog/2013/07/01/thumbnailing-with-thumbor/) are three sites that use Thumbor. See [How to install the Thumbor image CDN](https://web.dev/install-thumbor) for instructions on setting it up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Thumbor](https://github.com/thumbor/thumbor) is the only self-managed image CDN available today. While it is open-source and free to use, it generally has fewer features than most commercial CDNs, and its documentation is somewhat limited. [Wikipedia](https://wikitech.wikimedia.org/wiki/Thumbor), [Square](https://medium.com/square-corner-blog/dynamic-images-with-thumbor-a430a1cfcd87), and [99designs](https://99designs.com/tech-blog/blog/2013/07/01/thumbnailing-with-thumbor/) are three sites that use Thumbor. See the [How to install the Thumbor image CDN](https://web.dev/install-thumbor) post for instructions on setting it up.
```
Edits:
- "Less" is for non-countable nouns (like "water"), and "fewer" is for countable nouns (like "features").
- Need a comma between independent clauses joined by a coordinating conjunction.
- Our convention for referring to posts is "the [title] post."

### Third-party image CDNs 

> Third-party image CDNs provide “image CDNs as a service”. Just as cloud providers provide servers and other infrastructure for a fee; image CDNs provide image optimization and delivery for a fee. Because third-party image CDNs maintain the underlying technology, getting started is fairly simple and can usually be accomplished in 10-15 minutes, although a complete migration for a large site might take far longer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third-party image CDNs provide "image CDNs as a service". Just as cloud providers provide servers and other infrastructure for a fee; image CDNs provide image optimization and delivery for a fee. Because third-party image CDNs maintain the underlying technology, getting started is fairly simple and can usually be accomplished in 10-15 minutes, although a complete migration for a large site might take far longer.
```

> Third-party image CDNs provide “image CDNs as a service”. Just as cloud providers provide servers and other infrastructure for a fee; image CDNs provide image optimization and delivery for a fee. Because third-party image CDNs maintain the underlying technology, getting started is fairly simple and can usually be accomplished in 10-15 minutes, although a complete migration for a large site might take far longer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Third-party image CDNs provide “image CDNs as a service”. Just as cloud providers provide servers and other infrastructure for a fee, image CDNs provide image optimization and delivery for a fee. Because third-party image CDNs maintain the underlying technology, getting started is fairly simple and can usually be accomplished in 10–15 minutes, though a complete migration for a large site can take far longer.
```

Third-party image CDNs are typically priced based on usage tiers, with most image CDNs providing either a free tier or a free trial to give you an opportunity to try out their product. Examples of well-known third-party image CDNs include [Akamai Image Manager](https://www.akamai.com/us/en/products/performance/image-manager.jsp), [Cloudinary](https://cloudinary.com/), and [imgix](https://www.imgix.com/).

## Choosing an image CDN

There are many good options for image CDNs. Some will have more features than others, but all of them will probably help you save bytes on your images and therefore load your pages faster. Besides feature sets, other factors to consider when choosing an image CDN are cost, support, documentation, and ease of setup or migration.

> Trying them out yourself before making a decision can also be helpful. Below you can find codelabs with instructions on how to quickly get started with a variety of image CDNs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Trying them out yourself before making a decision can also be helpful. Below you can find codelabs with instructions on how to quickly get started with several image CDNs.
```
